# Task08_Lvl03_Capstone-1
Poised is a java file that creates and modifies project and person records in the PoisePMS SQL database. It is a project management system that achieves this functionality by
calling various methods from other java files such as Person.java, Project.java, PersonMethods.java, ProjectMethods.java and UserInterfaceMethods.java.

## Functions
Database records are created and updated using JDBC. The program has the following functionality:
- Create a new project and save it to the PoisePMS database.
- Change the total fee of an existing project and update the database record.
- Change the total paid to date of an existing project and update the database record.
- Change the due date of an existing project and update the database record.
- Update an existing architect's contact details in the database.
- Update an existing contractor's contact details in the database.
- Update an existing customer's contact details in the database.
- Finalize an existing project.
- Display all incomplete projects in the database.
- Display all overdue projects in the database.
- Find a project in the database by entering a project name or number.

Methods were created for each of these options.

### Create a new project
The program allows the user to create new projects and capture all the details of a project. This includes:
- Project number.
- Project name.
- Building type (house/apartment/store etc)
- Physical address of the project.
- ERF number.
- Total fee for the project.
- Total paid to date.
- Deadline of the project.
- Name, telephone number, email address and physical address of the project architect.
- Name, telephone number, email address and physical address of the project contractor.
- Name, telephone number, email address and physical address of the project customer.
- Project status which is set to 'Incomplete' by default for all new projects.
- Project completion date that is set to NULL in the database by default for all new projects.

If the user does not enter a name, one will automatically be generated by the customer last name and the type of building being designed.

A Project object is then created and the record is added to the database.

### Change the total fee
The user can change an existing project's total fee, by entering the project number to udpate. The updated fee is requested. The record for the specific project number in the database is then updated to reflect the new total fee.

### Change the total paid to date
The user can change an existing project's total paid, by entering the project number to udpate. The updated total paid is requested. The record for the specific project number in the database is then updated to reflect the new total paid.

### Change the due date
The user can change an existing project's due date, by entering the project number to udpate. The updated due date is requested. The record for the specific project number in the database is then updated to reflect the new due date. 

### Update the architect's details
The user can change an architect's contact details by selecting which contact details to update, number, email address or physical address, as well as providing the architect's ID number. The new details are requested and the contact details are updated in the database for that sepcific architect ID.

### Update the contractor's details
The user can change an contractor's contact details by selecting which contact details to update, number, email address or physical address, as well as providing the contractor's ID number. The new details are requested and the contact details are updated in the database for that sepcific contractor ID.

### Update the customer's details
The user can change an customer's contact details by selecting which contact details to update, number, email address or physical address, as well as providing the customer's ID number. The new details are requested and the contact details are updated in the database for that sepcific customer ID.

### Finalize the project
The user can finalize a project, by entering the project number to finalize. If this option is selected the program checks if the total paid is equal to the fee of the project. If it is not, it means that there is an outstanding balance and an invoice is generated. An invoice is then displayed with the customer's details as well as the amount payable. The project status is also changed to 'Finalized' in the database. 

### Display all incomplete projects
The program loops through all of the project records in the database and displays a project if the project status is 'Incomplete'.

### Display all overdue projects
The program loops through all of the project records in the database and displays a project if the project status is 'Incomplete' and the project deadline is earlier than today's date.

### Find a project by number or name
The user is requested to enter a string that can be interpreted as a project number or name. The program loops through all project numbers and names and displays the project once the string is found.

## Use 
This program is useful for small architecture companies that want to manage project, personnel and customer data. It allows users to allocate people to projects and to edit the data, as the project progresses. 

## Contributors
Contributors include Nadia Botha and HyperionDev. 

Please send an email to nadiamarais@live.co.za regarding any issues. Provide include a brief description and screenshot of the issue in the email, with Poised as the email subject. 

## Installing and running the program
Install the Java Development kit, by following the steps provided [here](https://www3.ntu.edu.sg/home/ehchua/programming/howto/JDK_HowTo.html#jdk-install).

If not done yet, install an IDE capable of running java. Two popular IDE's are IntelliJIdea, which can be downloaded [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) or Eclipse, which can be downloaded [here](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/).

After successfully installing an IDE, download and save all the .java files in the GitHub repository to the IDE workspace. Make sure that all the files are in the same folder.

Download and install MySQL [here](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/).

Download and install java connector [here](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/).

Copy the connector's .jar file into the <JAVA_HOME>\jre\lib\ext.

Create a new MySQL user by logging into a client session as the root user and executing the code:
create user 'otheruser'@'localhost' identified by 'swordfish';

Then log into a client session as the 'otheruser' and run the sql file - database PoisePMS.sql.

The database and tables should now be created with three records in each table.

Open Poised.java and run the file. Follow the instructions as displayed in the program.
